1. 100 years of Armenian genocide denial means 100 tweets from me, starting at 4:24pm.

2. The other day, a doctor started talking to me about Erdoğan and his various, vigorous denials in genocide. I stopped him and said I'm not that kind of Armenian. And I've felt guilty ever since.

3. The truth is, I *am* that kind of Armenian. In fact, I'd wager that most people who have an ounce of Armenian blood were raised precisely to be "that kind of Armenian."

4. When I was a kid, maybe 8 or 9, I was certain that a bomb would explode or there'd be some gunfire and my classmates and I would wind up dead.

5. That's an incredibly horrific thing to imagine, but what's to be expected when you're taught that there's an entire horde of people who wanted your ancestors dead?

7. The bitter truth, though, is that there's a perpetual genocide going on in many places, every day. Refusing to acknowledge one is a tacit acceptance of the others.

8. One lesson we were taught involved remembering which countries your grandparents came from. If you could trace your lineage past your grandparents, you were beyond lucky.

9. Luck had nothing to do with it. Your great-grandparents were either rich or divinely protected. Or they died, saving your grandparents as a result.

8. Miller once wrote that the disease of the 20th century was schizophrenia.

9. The modern Armenian is doomed to suffer schizophrenia.

10. You are neither here nor there. You are neither American nor French nor Argentian nor Egyptian. You are not Armenian but you are not your adopted country, either.

11. Many will rage at that. Few will look upon it with liberation.

12. Nationalism is absolute bullshit.

13. Cultural identity--the thing you defend after "surviving" a genocide--is precisely the tool that was used to instigate genocide.

14. I know that's a pretty terrible thing to say, but don't worry, I'll get to the good part. The part where "we" win and "they" lose.

15. Identity doesn't mean you can't be proud of who you are or where you came from.

16. Identity means you're confident enough to not let past circumstances dissuade you.

17. Identity means you're proud of what's happend and empowered to make a difference.

18. Wallowing in sadness doesn't change the past. It only ruins your future.

19. Enough about philosophy, though. Let's get down to some facts.

20. Fact: many Armenians died between 1880 and 1920.

21. Fact: much of my family and pretty much every Armenian family in the region was displaced.

22. Fact: people are harassed and challenged *to this day* when trying to state these truths.

23. Fact: systems in power will categorically deny any wrongdoing in order to stay in power.

24. Fact: systems in power will fabricate the truth to fit their own narrative.

25. People died and now people lie.

26. Maybe in another hundred years the event will be so far out of our consciousness that it won't even matter if it becomes a truth or not.

27. Just look at the masacares of Native Americans for proof of how time heals all wounds.

28. What, exactly, though, is modern Turkey afraid of?

29. Do they worry that reparations are in order? Will we demand our mountain back?

30. In every city I've visited, I've visited every single Armenian genocide memorial.

31. Montebello's tower, we'd visit nearly every year. Lots of families circled around it. There were always prayers with a moment of silence.

32. Yerevan's torch was the most grandoise. A pit of fire alongside an obelisk with a schism sliced through it.

33. Montreal's sculpture is a single slab of marble.

34. San Francisco's cross is on top of the highest natural peak in the city.

35. Every one has a plaque repeating those same sordid details: "Between such and such year such and such thing happened."

36. Not a single person I've listened to or spoken with has ever mentioned any expectation of money, land, or property.

37. There's something to be said about the pride of Armenians here, for sure.

38. It has nothing to do with the material gains. There's nothing to be gained here. There's no coin to be won.

39. It's about respect. And justice. An unfailing pursuit of the truth.

40. So I ask: if you're a system in power, and your words are already meaningless, why not utter the words millions of people expect?

41. It's much simpler to say "Sorry" than it is to say "It didn't happen."

42. To me, at least, that's the greatest aggravation of it all.

43. But, of course, don't think that only the aggressor is at fault here.

44. In '96, I remember the Dole campaign sending postcards to every Armenian family in the state.

45. The gist was: "You're Armenian! Vote for me, and I'll make sure America recognizes the genocide!"

46. Dole didn't win, of course, and I wondered if the opportunity for recognition forever slipped through our collective hands.

47. I didn't have to wait long for an answer. In '00, Bush did the same tactic. And *he* won.

48. Yet, the States made no formal recognition. Nor has it ever. Obama performed the exact same tactic.

49. And although he acknowledges the facts, he's stopped using the term "genocide." A word, by the way, that was invented *as a result of* the Armenian genocide.

50. France, too, is guilty here. They prefer Turks to accept the genocide as a precursor to their inclusion in the EU.

51. Israel refuses to recognize it.

52. The refusal stems from a simple fact: Turkey is powerful in the region. Do what they say at the cost of the facts.

53. The hands of no country is clean. But the perpetual washing is absolutely sickening.

54. But enough about us. Let's talk about now.

55. 100 years after the fact, we've invented a new word for a sort of mega-genocide. It's called a *holocaust*.

56. Genocides happen on a daily basis. An hourly basis.

57. One needn't wait for a hundred years. A hundred days, a hundred minutes, and some group will get in their heads that mass murder is the right solution.

58. Sudanese. Aboriginals. Tibetians. Mexicans. Bosnians. Kurds. Chinese. Palestinians.

59. That anyone can list this many off the top of their heads is revolting.

60. Systematic murder is a reality for many millions of men, women, and children.

61. The fear I had that bombs would blow me up as a child are fears that children experience right now.

62. Don't assume an overexaggeration, then, when I say that refusal of acknowledgement of one genocide is an acceptance of others. Because it's all the same.

63. When any group or person comes up with a reason for why they're better than another group or person, the game's over. Humanity lost.

64. There's little that can be done for a genocide half the world away.

65. Other than acceptance, there's nothing that can be done for a genocide a hundred years (or more) prior.

66. But there is always hope.

67. And the hope right now is that at some point, some day, we'll be able to look beyond differences that intice us right now to hate.

68. Look past gender.

69. Look past color.

70. Look past sexuality.

71. Look past nationality.

72. Look past species.

73. Yeah, species. Because when you put down an entire group of animals for ivory or fur or whatever the fuck, that's still a genocide.

74. The goal of living, I thought, was to evolve into better creatures.

75. Just like the monkey became the human, so too would the human becomes something more. An angel, maybe. Or at least, a less stupid human.

76. But as long as we perpetuate a system of stupidity and base it on a cycle of greed and revenge, we'll never become better.

77. The Armenians, at any rate, will probably never get the attention they deserve.

78. And that, in the loosest sense of the word, should be "fine".

79. The same way it should be understood and "fine" that no other massacred group mentioned and unmentioned, known and unknown, will get attention.

80. If the systems in power don't want to make it so, the least we can do is remember.

81. Words and the repetition of the stories are something that can never be lost, if you want to keep them.

82. Let others deny and obscure and ignore facts, on the micro and macro scales. That they do it does not mean they are right.

83. That you let them does not mean you are passive. Do not mistake passiveness for patience.

84. Memories, fortunately for all of us, can not yet be wiped. And they are long. And they last many more years than whomever is in charge.

85. And one day, when we become more than we are, the memories will help.

86. Until then, we're all going to have to wait.

87. It was written, "Tradition is a beautiful graveyard." Don't let the past drag on like a ball and chain.

88. Become more than what you think you can become.

89. I guarantee that perpetrators of hate and denial will eventually change their minds or die with their obsolete opinions. That is how it has always been.

90. 100 years of lies is equatable to 100 minutes, 100 seconds. And neither one is acceptable.

91. Stand for what's actually right, not what history tells you is right. Not what other people tell you what's right.

92. It's really the only way we're going to make it through this.

93. My infinite love to all the bodies, who associate themselves with Armenia.

94. My sisters, my parents, my cousins, my aunts and uncle, my friends, and all the rest. Anyone who's lived, really.

95. TODO

96. TODO

97. TODO

98. If you weren't there, you wouldn't know.

99. And if you don't know, embrace the ignorance. Then learn more.

100. Fuck it. Thank you. I love you all.
